---
layout: post
title: ESLint
categories: javascript
---

Linting is cool. It keeps people from making stupid mistakes and can make your code a lot neater/easier to read.

Not linting is how you end up with spaghetti code that no one can read.

Lint **everything**. HTML, CSS, JS, Python, Ruby, PHP, etc.

ESLint lints JS really nicely.

There was JSHint and JSLint, but they were hard to extend so someone made a JS linter that was easy to extend called ESLint. It's now the standard.

Agree with your team on a coding style. This part isn't super important and there are a ton of well thought out configs out there already like [AirBnB](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript/tree/master/packages/eslint-config-airbnb). What's important is you all agree to do the same code style!

## How to use ESLint

Use npm. It's easy and portable.

- `cd ~/playgrounds/eslint`
- `echo '{}' > package.json`
- `npm install --save-dev eslint-config-airbnb eslint-plugin-import eslint-plugin-react eslint-plugin-jsx-a11y eslint` ([AirBnB usage](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript/tree/master/packages/eslint-config-airbnb#eslint-config-airbnb-1))

> **Note:** I feel ya. All of these npm packages seem silly, but it's the whole Unix philosophy of making everything modular. It's a bit annoying, but overall it's usually a good thing.

- At this point you could do something like `eslint --init` to make an ESLint config file. In that file, you could add something like `"extends": "airbnb"`, but that's newb stuff. Do we really need **yet another** config file?
- Do this instead: in your `package.json` add an `"eslintConfig"` object with `"extends": "airbnb"` in it.

> **Protip:** If you're configuring some npm package, see if you can put it in `package.json` instead of having 20 config files polluting the root of your project.

- Now you could run `node_modules/.bin/eslint` in terminal (and this is actually cool/useful for the `--fix` flag), but you don't want to be switching between terminal and editor after every keystroke to see if you made a mistake, so install an editor plugin for ESLint. Here's [Atom's](https://github.com/AtomLinter/linter-eslint). ESLint is insanely popular so there is almost certainly a plugin for your editor.
- Restart your editor and type some sloppy, error-filled, JS. Your editor should light up like a Christmas tree.

## What if I have some global variables? jQuery doesn't work! `alert()` is throwing an error!

Config it!

```json
"eslintConfig": {
  "extends": "airbnb",
  "env": {
    "jquery": true
  },
  "rules": {
    "no-alert": "off"
  }
}
```

## Congrats

Now you're linting your JS like a pro. Enjoy your impending OCD.

## Homework

- Experiment with some other configs ([standard](http://standardjs.com/) is currently my favorite).
- Write your own config.
- Skim through the [rules](http://eslint.org/docs/rules/) and read what some of them do.
- Skim through some [configuration options](http://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/configuring) so when something breaks you might have an idea as to what's wrong.
